
## Description

**Model** application domain and operation

**View** the display of application state

**Controller** user interaction with model and view


## Baisc View Idioms

- paragraphs of text
- list of text (menus)
- choice "buttons"
- graphical forms (bit- or piexl-maps)


## Basic User Interaction Paradigms

- browsing
- insepection
- editing


## Model

The model of an application is the domain-specific software simulation or implementation of the application's central structure.

The behavior required of models is the ability to have dependents and the ability to brocast chanege messages to their dependents. Models hold onto a collection of their dependent objects. Sending the message **changed** to a model causes the message **update** to be sent to each of its dependents.

## View

The view deal with everything **graphical**, the request data form their model, and display data. The can contain subviews and be contained within superview. The superview provides ability to perform graphical transformations, windowing, and clipping, between the levels of this subview/superview hierarchy. Display message often passed from the top-level view through to the subviews.

The abstract superclass, class view, includes model and controller interaction, subview and superview interaction, coordinate transformation, and display rectangle actions.

## Controller

Controllers contain the interface between their associated models and views and the input devices (keyboard, pointing device, time). Controllers also deal with scheduling interactions with other view-controller pairs: the track mouse movement between application views, and implement messages for mouse button activity and input from input sensor.

## A Standard for the interaction Cycle

The standard interaction cycle in the Model-View-Controller metaphor, then, is that the user takes some input action and the active controller notifies the model to change itself accordingly. The model carries out the prescribed operations, possibly changing its state, and broadcasts to its dependents (views and controllers) that it has changed, possibly telling them nature of the change. Views can then inquire of the model about its new state, and update their display if necessary. Controllers may change their method of interaction depending on the new state of the model.

