---
layout: post
title: GUI Architectures extract from Martin Fowler
---

Forms and Controls
------------------

The form contains two main responsibilities:

* Screen layout: defining the arrangement of controls on the screen, together with their hierachic structure with one other.
* Form logic: behavior that cannot be easily programmed into the controls themseleves.

The controls display data, in most situations there ara there copies of the data involved:

* **record state** lies in the database itself.
* **session state** lies inside in-memory `Record Sets`within the application.
* **screen state** lies iniside the GUI components themseleves.

Keeping screen state and session state synchronized is `Data Binding`. The idea was that any change to the control data, or the underlying record set was immediately propagated to the other.

### Summary

* Developers write application specific forms that use generic controls, the form object holds direct references to generic controls.
* The form describe the layout of controls on it.
* The form observes the controls and has handler methods to react to interesting events raised by the control.
* Simple data eidits are handled through data binding.
* Complex changes are done in the form's event handling methods.

Model View Controller
---------------------

The heart of MVC is `Separated Presentation`. The idea behind separeted presentaion is to make a clear division between domain objects that model our perception of the real world, and presentation objects that are GUI elements we see on the screen. Domain objects shold be completely self contained and work without reference to the presentaion. 

The presentaion part of MVC is made of the two remaining elements: view and controller. The controller's job is to take the user's input and figure out what to do with it.

### Summary

* Make a strong separation between presentation (view and controller) and domain (model) - `Separated Presentaion`.
* Divide GUI widgets into a controller (for reacting to user stimulus) and view (for displaying the state of the model). Controller and view should (mostly) not communicate directly but through the model.
* Have view (and controller) observe the model to allow multiple widgets to update without needed to communicate directly - `Observer Synchorinization`
